Hi, I’m Taylor,
and this is “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Today, we’re going to practice
how to start a conversation
that could lead to a witness.
Now, for many, this can be terrifying.
Why?
Well, as soon as we see someone
that we’d like to talk to,
we can start to think to ourselves:
‘What am I going to say?
How am I going to give a witness?’
Or, ‘How are they going to react?’
And we can become
so overwhelmed with anxiety or nerves,
thinking about how the conversation will end,
that we never even start.
So here’s something
that we must keep in mind.
Our goal is simply
to start  a conversation.
So if we’ve started a conversation,
we’ve succeeded—we’ve reached our goal!
Then we can just relax
and see if it leads to a witness.
The September 2018
Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook
shows us how we can start a conversation
like Jesus did with the Samaritan woman
in John chapter 4.
So when we see someone
that we would like to talk to,
we want to keep these three steps in mind:
Step 1: Be friendly.
That’s it.
Just be friendly.
Now, we could be nervous.
So we can say a quick prayer
to Jehovah to give us courage,
but then we can give a friendly greeting.
Then we can mention something
that’s happening right then and there:
maybe the weather,
a long line at the grocery store,
their nice car,
or another genuine compliment.
When Jesus started his conversation,
in verse 7,
with the Samaritan woman, he simply said
(and no doubt in a friendly way):
“Give me a drink.”
Step 2:
Let the conversation progress naturally.
Don’t rush it.
If the conversation ends before we are able
to give a witness, it’s OK.
We accomplished our goal.
We started a conversation.
Now we’re ready to try again.
Now, if the conversation continues on,
then we can look for an opportunity
to take step 3:
Make a simple expression of our faith.
Seven verses after Jesus
started the conversation
with the Samaritan woman,
he then witnessed to her.
He said he had water
that imparts everlasting life.
But between those two points,
he didn’t lecture her.
He let her talk and express herself,
and he listened to what she had to say.
So with those three steps in mind,
now it’s our turn.
It’s our turn to practice
starting a conversation
that could lead to a witness.
Now, tied in with us, we have
Taís and Carolina
who have joined us for a demonstration.
So where are you going to try
to start your conversation today?
We are in a department store.
Yes, we are in a Portuguese congregation,
and it’s common to hear people speak
Portuguese when we are out shopping.
Excellent.
So you’ve heard the three steps
that we want to try.
But first, let’s see what could happen
if we rush the conversation.
OK.
Oi, tudo bem?
I heard you speaking Portuguese.
Where are you from?
Oi, I’m from Rio de Janeiro.
I’m from São Paulo.
How long have you been here?
Just three months.
It’s so hard to adjust, isn’t it?
You know, the Bible helped me so much
when I moved here.
I don’t want to keep you from your shopping,
but you can read
the Bible in Portuguese on our website,
and it has articles
that I know you will find comforting.
OK, so time-out.
Now, Taís, we know
you rushed that on purpose,
but how did it make you feel when you did?
Yeah, it didn’t feel right
to start witnessing so quickly.
And I saw that she wasn’t expecting it.
Right.
And Carolina, how about you?
How did it make you feel?
It started OK,
but then it got awkward real fast.
Right.
So now, maybe you can show us
what it’s like when the conversation
will progress more naturally.
OK.
Oi, tudo bem?
I heard you speaking Portuguese.
Where are you from?
Oi, I’m from Rio de Janeiro.
Oh, nice.
I’m from São Paulo.
I recognized your accent.
I’m Taís.
I’m Carolina.
Nice to meet you.
Wow!
How long have you been here?
Only three months.
Well, for me it’s been three years,
and the first was the hardest.
Yes, we finally have work.
But we are still looking for a place to live.
And immigration has been harder
than we thought.
Wow!
I’m so sorry.
Do you have family with you?
My husband.
We had to leave our son with my mother.
I miss him so much.
Wow, that’s so hard.
But we have to keep trusting in God.
In my case, it’s what got me through.
I know, but I still worry when I don’t know
what He will do for us.
OK, so let’s stop there.
Really nice, thank you.
So Taís, where do you feel
the conversation is at at this point?
Yeah, I felt like I found a good time
to say something about my faith.
And now she’s saying how she feels.
Nice, excellent.
And Carolina, how about you?
It was just a nice conversation.
So when she mentioned God,
it was not awkward.
Thank you, sisters, for letting us
learn from your conversation.
I found that helpful, and I hope you did too.
Make it your goal to start conversations
with those three steps:
Be friendly, converse naturally,
and find the right time
to express your faith.
Practice at home or with a friend,
and see for yourself
how “iron sharpens iron.”